- What is [linearizability](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/9762101/what-is-linearizability#:~:text=Linearizability%20means%20that%20modifications%20happen,will%20not%20undergo%20any%20modification.), the strong consistency guarantee
- Assumption question:
	- Cana I assume X?
		- If I assume X and I'm wrong, what will happen?
		- If I don't assume X, what is the penalty?
- Is this the right way to X?
	- Usually there are many ways to do X
	- Figure out two or three ways to do X
- I can't decide between X and Y?
	- Using a table of weights/features
		- See what is relevant to you from features
	- If stuck between options, add another option Z to the table
	- Always try more iteration
	- Try to add more rows and columns to the table
	- Tables with numerical values are the best, maybe big O next.
- Matrix decision wise is expected (Try it for P0 so you have it before P2 & P3)
- Suggestions:
	- Read everything
	- details questions referring to handout, spec, etc.
	- multi-dimensional questions about assumptions
	- Find multiple solutions to a tough problem.
- #OS CPU state
	- General purpose registers and non-user register (processor status register)
		- process register - has currently running? interrupts on? virtual memory on? memory model used?
- #Later what is unreal mode?
- #OS floating point number registers also exist
	- getpid()
		- library routing - execs TRAP instruction
			- INT in intel but means it isn't an interrupt
			- Enters Kernel mode from User mode.
			- Kernel runtime environment - different runtime environment for different languages
				- ML has no stack (only heap)
				- C stack-based
			- Processor is usually agnostic of language ran.
			- Trap handler builds runtime environment
				- Processor can switch to correct stack
				- saves registers
				- turn on virtual memory
				- flushes caches
		- place pid somewhere in a struct --> returned from trap and back in user mode
		- User mode, and pid returned from function process.
			-
		- What is getpid?
			- In C, it is a function call
			- Single instruction (INT) to modify eax
			- Priviledged which can access OS internal state
	- read()
		- Diff story
			- User process stops running
			- OS issues disk read
			- time pass
			- OS copies data to buffer
			- user process starts running
		- another
			- trap to kernel
			- kernel tells disk to read a sector (eg 2781828)
			- Switch to running P2
				- return to user mode, but we are in P2, not P1
			- P1 is currently blocked in a sys call (stack pointer is somewhere)
			- Disk finishes and requests to interupt to kernel
			- Kernel will return from interrupt but to P1 and not P2
			- P2 is now in a not *running state*, but not in a *blocked state*.
		- How does CPU handle particular interrupts?
			- Disk interrupt -> invoke disk driver
			- Mouse interrupt -> invoke mouse driver
		- Need to know where to dump reigsters??
			- Often: property of current process, not of interrupt!!
		- New register values load into CPU
		- CPU saves old processor state
			- stored on kernel stack
		- CPU modifies state  according to table entry
			- priviledge information
		- Interrupt handler begins and uses kernel stack
		- Interrupt handler completes
			- empties stack back to original state
			- Invokes "Interrupt return" (IRET) instruction
- 12:29 In my databases class now #15445
	- SQL based on bags (allow duplicates),
		- no sets (no duplicates)
	- 12:41 Plan for now
		- Aggregations + Group By
		- String / Date / Time operations
		- Output control + redirection
		- window functions
		- nested quieries
		- laterial joins
		- common table expressions
	- GROUP BY (combines elements into a single entry)
	- FROM chooses table to query
	- AS  - alias
	- SELECT - creates a table
	- HAVING - is like an if statement
		- HAVING can be after the GROUP BY clause
	- WHERE  - like HAVING but cannot be used with aggregates, only with records in the original table
		- WHERE deletes from the FROM clause
	- LIKE - used for string matching
		- % - matches any substring
		- _ - matches single char
	- FETCH - ???
	- What are window functions?
	- IN - equiv to any
	- all must satisfy expression for all rows
	- any - must check for at least one row
	- exists - at least one row is returned without comparing it to an attribute in the outer query
- #15455 Provides a way to write auxiliary statements for use in a larger query
	- table variable with the lifespan for just the query
	- WITH --> declares a temp table
- 15:00 In my writing class now.
- #TODO/15330 Section 1.8 Computer Security: In assets folder
- #15330/Lecture
	- Threat Model:
		- What assets are you protecting and what matters?
		- System goals (functionality and security)
		- Assumptions made about the adversary
	- Defense categories
		- Prevention
		- Detection
			- Alert that an attack is happening or has happened
		- Resilience
			- Tolerate some level of successful attack
		- Risk compensation
			- better defenses --> more careless behavior
		- may choose no or little defense
			- too expensive or inconvenient
	- TCB - Trusted Computing Base (TCB)
-
-
-
-
-